at first glance this is possible for
users to think that the new image based
lighting skylight mode in 3dsmax 2014
isn't really a new feature at all after
all rendering in mentalray whilst making
use of a 3dsmax
skylight and HDR image is something that
has been possible pretty much since
mentalray was integrated into 3ds max in
version 6
well first glances can be and indeed
often times are somewhat misleading in
fact this particular feature addition is
significant enough that it has instantly
become a part of the default way that
max a mental ray operate at render time
to follow along as we demonstrate the
quality and functionality of the new IBL
mode open up the mr IBL de max scene
file from your working files folder to
get an idea of what mental ray skylight
IPL mode brings to the table it would
probably be a good idea to first of all
set up or endure the old fashioned way
that is using final gather to generate
skylight and then compare the results we
get from that render with the subsequent
IPL version we can do this by means of
3ds Max's ram player to get started then
we first of all need to add a standard
skylight into our C to do that we can
come over to the create tab click to
enter the light section and then choose
standard from the drop down as the
skylight is what we are after here let's
click to select that option and then
just click once over in the top viewport
to create one remembering of course to
right click to end create mode just as a
complete side note if I middle click
over in the camera viewport to make it
active you can quickly see that nitrous
does a very nice job indeed of rendering
the skylight in the few pots lots of
scene detail being very nicely picked
out for us certainly this level of
quality could easily be used to create
very nice-looking previous animations
and the like getting back to our image
based lighting while the skylight is
still selected we do want to make one
quick change to its parameters so coming
into the modify tab let's switch the
skylight color option over to you seed
environment having done that the
logical step would of course be to add a
map to the environments itself to open
the environments and effects dialog we
can hit the 8 key on the keyboard and
then click on the environment map button
to bring up the material/map browser in
here if we just close up the standard
maps rollout and then look down the list
of men who raise specific maps we can
locate the mental ray physical sky map
once located all we need to do is double
click to load it into the environment
map slot you could of course load any
HDRI you have available if you would
like to test it out but as the mental
ray physical sky map is itself a high
dynamic range image this will serve our
purposes nicely here as we have a few
parameter tweaks that we want to make
before taking the render let's start
here in the environment dialog by
enabling the mental ray photographic
exposure control and then setting an
exposure value of 13 next we want to hit
f10 and bring up the render setup dialog
so we can come into the global
illumination tab and here as you can see
we have a new rollout placed right at
the top entitled skylights and
environment lighting to do things the
old way as it were we need to make
certain that the first option skylight
illumination from final gather is the
one chosen to be sure that we are giving
this mode a fair crack of the whip
quality wise let's set the final gather
quality slider to medium and set a
diffuse bounce value of 3 then of course
we need to hit the render button
what we eventually get is to be honest
an on to promising image with regard to
the lighting in truth are we are really
getting here is colored final gather no
strong occlusion shadows no real sense
of the color variation that can be found
in the mental ray physical sky map
either
to help us make a proper comparison in a
little while let's open up the RAM
player from the rendering menu and place
this render into the a Channel
then we can minimize the RAM player for
now let's make the switch then and see
what we get from the new and default
skylight illumination from IBL option to
make this a true test we are going to
make no changes at all to our current
settings
well let's in fact make one change let's
actually drop the final gather quality
setting all the way back down to the
minimum of draft and then see what we
get by hitting the render button once
again
I am pretty certain that straightaway
you can spot the big difference in
lighting quality coming from the IBL
mode render but let's add that into the
ramp layer anyway and make a
side-by-side comparison
what we get from the new render is
clearly superior in every way better
lighting and certainly much stronger
more believable occlusion shadows this
looks like a scene being lit by a hate
dri
which in all honesty at the old final
gala version doesn't it probably doesn't
hurt to point out also that the IBL mode
render was actually much faster as well
we could of course improve the quality
here by means of the shadow quality
setting it has a usable range of 0 to 10
and our current setting is 0.5 but to be
honest I would more often than not
prefer to improve render quality by
means of the main image sampling
controls and these after our Ville
impacts the quality of the entire render
and not just the shadow quality of the
skylight before we close this video
there is one very cool aspect of the new
IBL modes feature set that we haven't up
to this point touched on this can
actually be demonstrated by coming down
a little in the global illumination tab
and turning off final gather now if you
have used a skylight and HDR i
previously in 3dsmax
to create image based lighting you will
no doubt expect to end up with a pure
black render skylight rendering with
mental ray has always required that
final gather be enabled or per tool now
that is if I just hit render you can see
we start to render straight away and
it's a very nice skylight render effect
this is because the IBL mode in mental
ray is in fact a direct light source
much along the lines of the dome light
in the v-ray render engine when making
use of this light source
there will be no flickering GI or any
such problems to worry about
so as long as this is used in
conjunction with high-quality hasty our
eyes and good image sampling settings
the quality of final renders from the
new IBL mode will pretty much always
speak for themselves